# Swinburne's Library: READ ME

This file describes the swinburne_library.xml file. 

The contents of the catalogue items were gathered from *Sales Catalogues of Libraries of Eminent Persons*, general editory A. N. L. Munby, Litt. D., Volume 6: Poets and Men of Letters, edited by John Wooldford, 1972, pages 247-336. The items were listed by the size, day, then lot in which they were sold, and the structure of the xml file reflects this. All of the information given by the sales catalogue is included in the xml file, including by not limited to author, title, year(s)/location of publication, any notes given about the item, and inscriptions. The order of the items in the catalogue is maintained in the xml file. One feature of note found in the cataliogue is the "etc" which, as far as we know, represents a count of items that were also sold in each lot but were not listed in the sales catalogue. These "etc"s were tracked in order to have as accurate a count of the total number of items in Swinburne's library as possible, though this particular data was not necessarily relevant to the research. The xml file follows TEI.

Once the information from the sales catalogued was added to the file, the next step was to find all available digital copies of each of the texts listed in the cataloge. These items were added as `relatedItem`s in each biliographic entry. There were four main resources that we looked at to find the items, which were HathiTrust (ht), the Internet Archive (ia), Early English Books Online (eebo), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ecco), and the Oxford Text Archive (ota) / Text Creation Partnership (tcp). Items found in EEBO were later replaced by the TCP item handles and identification numbers. The type of URL for each item, i.e. which resource it came from, is listed as the `@type` in each `relatedItem`. The majority of the corpus comes from HathiTrust. 

Some bibliographic entries have `note`s, which have a few different types, but the most common one is `@type="fulltext"`. This refers to a note we made about the item mentioned in the bibliographic entry, usullay about discrepencies in the item we found, like a slightly different title or a different, closest year we could find. The other main type of `note` is `@type="description"` which are the notes made in the catalogue itself, not added by us. This note type aslo includes information regrading whether or not the  item was "uncut" or a "presentation copy". 

There are also comments left in the file in the `<!-- -->` format. These are sometimes notes about the XML itself, such as noting the end of each lot by day for human readability. These comments are primarily to us, the researchers, to come back to and check.
