# Z702 with Alex

## Tasks:
-	Identification of ways to improve/enrich metadata in TEI document of Swinburne’s library
-	Enrichment of the metadata in the TEI document
-	Encoding of citations in his own poetry
-	Creation of informative visualizations on Swinburne’s library
-	Research on the development of his library
-	Computational analysis of the texts in his library
-	Computational analysis of the full texts of his already TEI-encoded works

## Research products: 
-	TEI-XML document of the auction catalog of Charles Algernon Swinburne’s library with enriched and standardized metadata pertaining to multiple fields (e.g., author, title, size, language, publication information)
-	Data visualizations of Swinburne’s library based on the data in the TEI document
-	Results from citation analysis of Swinburne’s library and some or all of his poetry
-	Results from text analysis of Swinburne’s library and some or all of his poetry.
-	Conference abstract for DH Benelux 2022

## Conferences:
- [DH Benelux 2022](https://2022.dhbenelux.org/call-for-papers/)
	- Abstracts due Friday, 2 February 2022. 
	- Conference 1-3 June 2022.
- DH Congress 2022
	- Abstract already accepted
	- Conference 8-10 September 2022.

## Resources:
- Swinburne data on github: <https://github.com/jawalsh/acsproj>. Library data in `intertextual_analysis` directory.
- Full text files on SharePoint: <https://indiana.sharepoint.com/sites/O365-swinburne_shared>
- <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1CHGVFYD_fZEProwgkb29fp9ccOc7F-AT>
- Extracted Features documentation 2.0: <https://wiki.htrc.illinois.edu/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=79069329>

## Notes
### 2022-04-01 
__Need to talk about paper and logistics for DHBenelux!__
- DH Benelux
    - Is TEI old fashioned? We've moved on to big data and text analysis, but there's still an argument for the use of TEI in dig. editions, data, and other stuff. 
- Have we contacted Damien? Yes
### 2022-03-26 to 2022-04-01
- Created XSLT to get the text out of EEBO items
- Got text from EEBO and ECCO (3 in total)
    - there's still one EEBO we can't get because even EEBO doesn't have a text.
- Books from library catalogs
    - Looked at 44 libraries, 16 had books from Swinburne
    - Added 15 new books based on looking at various library catalogs
    - 10 other books were already in the dataset, but added `<note type="provenance">`
    - 173 other books that could be added (unsure how many are new) between the Ransom Center and Stanford
- Started looking at Javascript and Python JSON tutorials, I think Python might be easier?
    - At the 2nd HTRC workshop yesterday (Thursday), they shared a Jupyter notebook that I think we can adapt.
### 2022-03-25
- Alex to do
    - will look through libraries to look for more Swinburne books to add
    - Keep looking through poetry citations for more books to add
    - Getting text files out of the EEBO and ECCO that are still in the library file
    - Still need to think about Javascript tutorial to work with JSON data
- For next week, we want to talk through the paper and the slides for Benelux
### 2022-03-21 to 2022-03-25
- Finished documentation of how to link to relatSwinburne, biblFeaturs, places, authors, and publishers in swinburne_library.xml and how to create new entries.
- Tasks that would be ready for Damien (or someone else)
    - Enriching the metadata of swinburne_library
    - Getting data from letters
- Taking out EEBO links, conforming TCP is right
    - For now, not replacing TCP with HathiTrust for reasons of time
    - Only 3 EEBO left
### 2022-03-05 to 2022-03-11
- For EEBO texts, if there's a TCP version, do we even want to keep the link to EEBO?
    - Take out
- Replaced all but 1 ECCO link with something freely accessible.
- Done: 
    -  Check the notes in the poetry for more books to possibly add. There are ones that are already captured because they have `<cit>` inside of them, but not all.
- Observation: The texts that don't seem to present on HathiTrust, but are on either EEBO or TCP are primarily early English drama or poetry
    - Search of the catalog confirms this. with the restrictions of subject: drama, language: english/middle english, and before date: 1700, you only get 41 hits. Similar search on TCP (not accounting for language) has 196.
- **uncut does not mean what we thought it meant**
    - uncut = the book was not trimmed when it was rebound. The size of its margins is the same as when it was printed
    - unopened = the gathering has not been opened (commonly, but apparently incorrectly referred to as "uncut")
    - Frankly, this makes sense since "uncut" books have been annotated.
    - https://collation.folger.edu/2016/08/uncut-unopened-untrimmed-uh-oh/ 
- **There are more books besides Sotheby's and Watts Dunton owned by Swinburne**
    - I wanted to check the uncut/unopened hypothesis and figured that the Ransom Center might have some of his books. 47 to be exact. And I haven't encountered a single one in searching the first 10 that are in the Sotheby's or Watts Dunton catalog
    - The Lilly has 1 book that I'm going to see on the 16th. *The Recluse*, it's not in the data file either
    - Harvard has some; some in data file (noted with `<note type="provenance">`, 2 are gift from Swinburne to his sister, at least one not in data file
- Issues
    - I think sb013.1 is really from 1770, not 1720 based on ESTC and available editions. Would be nice to check the auction catalog to see if it is wrong or if there was a transcription error.
    - **@xml:id of acs0000001-06 is incorrect!!**
    - What would "Anth. Sac." stand for as the citation for a greek quote?
- To do
    - Add HT texts to sb383.1 and sb 384.1 (Hugo complete works. Weirdly catalogued on HT so they don't necessarily show up as a set)
### 2022-03-04
- HathiTrust RC features we're most interested in
    - Language
    - Calculated Language
    - Place of Publication
- To do
    - recheck eebo/ecco, see if HathiTrust or TCP has now. Edition/issue matters less
    - Documentation of adding the refs for place names and authors
    - Send email to John with Damien's contact info and Markdown files with the documentation to show what it's like.
        - By spring break.
    - HathiTrust IDs for Navarre examples
    - Check the notes in the poetry for more books to possibly add. There are ones that are already captured because they have `<cit>` inside of them, but not all.
    - Check through extracted citations from poetry to make sure that they're actually in the library.
    - Find JavaScript tutorials
        - Look at working with JSON data versus javascript programming
        - Maybe python with JSON too.
### 2022-02-26 to 2022-03-03
- Created text file of the Watts Dunton and Top 100 HT ids
- Added authority records for all places that are recorded in swinburne_library.xml
    - adding the refs as well to the biblStruct entries
### 2022-02-25
- Documenting how to do Watts Dunton
- Documentation of adding author/publisher/place authority files to Sotheby's or Watts-Dunton entries
- any last little clean up on existing data
- ~~HathiTrust ids for the Watts-Dunton and the Top 100
    - ~~separate file than the existing one. Either email to John or put in the intertextual_analysis
- For next week
    - Moving on to outlining the talk (Benelux and Sheffield, because Benelux will have abbreviated version)
        - Sheffield
            - Methodology for Swinburne
            - Findings
        - Benelux
            - Comparative structure
                - intro to all three
                - methods for all three
                    - Different methods possible for all three based on the circumstances I think is major 
                - findings for all three
    - Brainstorm of visualizations, etc.
    - Brainstorm of the full text
### 2022-02-19 to 2022-02-25 (Alex)
- Added items from Top 100 that were missing from the library. 
    - Theocritus: English, Greek/Latin bilingual edition.
    - Epictetus in Greek, English, and French via an English translation and a Greek/French bilingual edition. Looks like good OCR on the Greek.
        - This decision about Theocritus and Epictetus is something to possibly talk about in the paper/article about creating the corpus. Including English to possibly "catch" Swinburne's translations/paraphrases into English from the Greek that aren't typographically evident.
            - See particularly "On the Cliffs"
- Added "gift\_to" to the Swinburne relationship taxonomy for books given to Swinburne, but are not presentation copies from the author
- Added note type="inscription" to all of the inscriptions listed in Watts-Dunton to match Sotheby's
    - For inscriptions that include poetry (which usually have the first line in the description), have added `<note type="inscription">poem</note>`
- Added more relationships to Swinburne based on searching the description notes in Sotheby's
- Questions
    - Do we want to indicate private press publications in some way?
    - Note association copies?
        - Asking because there are some books that are presentation copies from one person to another and neither of those people are Swinburne. Plus Swinburne owns a book that was a presentation copy to Alexander Pope
- Need to: 
    - ~~Look for "uncut" in note type="description". Not all are marked.
        - ~~Same with presentation copy
- Possible analyses:
    - Books in Sotheby's have note type="inscription" when Swinburne has signed his book. Could be interesting to compare the date in the inscription with the date of publication to see how much of a time gap there is generally
### 2022-02-18
- Top 100 still missing
    - Look through letters index to see what works are mentioned in the letters for each author
        - Go to HathiTrust to find editions
    - If there are none, look on HathiTrust for an anthology of their works
    - HathiTrust workset from Swinburne library
        - Scholarly introduction
        - JSON workset
        - Derived datasets

### 2022-02-11 to 2022-02-18 (Alex)
- Poetry extraction
    - finished XSLT sheet
    - Ran XSLT on all 6 vols
    - Copied results into poetry_extractedCitations.xml
- Brainstorming things to count (see notes from 2022-02-11)
- Created `library_\stats.xsl`
- Created `CSV\_library\_stats.xsl`
    - currently just showing values of publication year and owned entries
- swinburne_library.xml file changes
    - Added taxonomy for edition types to the bibliographic features taxonomy (for purposes of counting)
    - added @corresp="#owned" to all books in the auction section
- Want to do
    - search through `<note>` with "Swinburne's", "writing", "signature" "of Swinburne" so can add Swinburne relationship taxonomy
- Questions based on preliminary stats
    - How does Swinburne compare in terms of format to the average gentleman's library from the Victorian period
- Creating HTRC workset (<https://analytics.hathitrust.org/uploadworkset>)
    - For talk, we can discuss the HTRC workset concept and the capabilities it provides, and also discuss the limitations, e.g., the HTRC workset is a subset of the library/reading bibliography, because not all items are in HT. Might to a deeper dive into what is missing. Do missing items seem random/arbitrary, or are there particular categories of things that are more likely to be absent from the HT collection.
- Went through Top 100. There are still some that appear to be missing to me.


### 2022-02-11 
#### Things to count in `swinburne_library.xml`
- uncut volumes: `count(//@corresp[contains(.,'#uncut')])`
- diff taxonomy values (use for-each-group probably)
- owned and presentation copy _to_ Swinburne `count(//biblStruct[.//note[@corresp[contains(.,'presentation')]] and .[@corresp[contains(., 'owned')]]])` __(277!!)__
- works per pub year (again, for-each-group probably) in owned
- format (octavo, folio, etc.) in owned
- pubPlace 
- volume runs
- edition types
    - first
    - second
    - deluxe
    - limited

###  2022-02-04 to 2022-02-11 (Alex)
- Letters
    - transfered XML recorded references to a TEI-XML file for possible additions to later
    - Created CSV file to record references for letters
    - Recorded relevant references in the first two pages of the index in the CSV file as an example for future people
    - Recorded references listed under "Swinburne, Algernon Charles" > Library
    - Created documentation in Markdown for doing the letter reference work
- Poetry XPath
    - Good
        - `//epigraph`
        - `//cit`
        - `//head[contains(., 'Memory')]`
        - `//head[contains(., 'For ')]`
    - Not Good
        - `//head[contains(., 'for ')]`
    - Have created an XSLT that spits out results of the good XPaths in TEI-ish format.
        - separated into listEpigraph, listCit, and listHonor

## 2022-01-28 to 2022-02-03 (Alex)
- Letters
    - I'm thinking that we shouldn't encode references to the footnotes to Swinburne's letters since they aren't actually his words. Opinions?
        - For the moment, differentiating using "n" in the @ref for pages.
    - The older edition of Swinburne's letters indicates when ACS or the editor is quoting from a work using an asterisk in the index. Am encoding the presence of the asterisk using @type="quote" on `<ref>`. 
    - Documenting how I think the letter references should be encoded. Feedback needed.
    - Translations of Swinburne's own works. Include? (ex: Albrecht's translation of _Atalanta in Calydon_)
    - ~~Add @status to each bibl? (present and absent?)~~
        - __No__ going to put "received" and "referenced" in taxonomy to fulfill these functions.
- Watts-Dunton
    - ~~Adding items that have "Swinburne's" in the description.~~ Done
        - Following format of entries from Sotheby's books since fits well and there's enough information to fill out that kind of information as opposed to the letters.
    - Need to check "from Swinburne" as well to get all presentation copies.
    - Using `<q>` to distinguish Swinburne's inscription/writing.
    - Not including proofs. Must be properly published and annotated, signed, etc. by Swinburne in order to be included.

### 2022-01-28
#### For next week(s)
- ~~review indices of letters as sources of Swinburne's reading. 
    - Look at topics under Swinburne
    - Look at authors/works. Record info:
        - work
        - Letter date(s)
	- ~~Document process for hourly help.
- ~~Explore poetry files with xPath searches to find additional reading.~~
	- `epigraph`
	- `cit`
	- `head[contains(.,'Memory')]`
	- `head[contains(.,'for')]`
	- `head[contains(.,'For')]`
	- Check about 30, see if any of them are from books that aren't in the library
- ~~Continue working on XSLT stylesheet for exploring poetry
- Top 100
	- Determine if all authors are already represented in library.
	- For those who are not, decide what to draft.
	- Draft text explaining our process.
- ~~Add `<floruit>`, `<birth>`, `<death>` to authors/publishers missing it. ~~
- Need rest of publishers from the auction catalog. Not all have authority files yet.
- Document adding Watts-Dunton entries to swinburne_library.xml
- Documenting author/publisher authority files
    - There are still uncertain authors/publishers in Alyssa's "Name Authority Issues" Google Doc
- Publication places need to be represented in the front. 
    - _There are 393 pubPlaces in the catalog, 251 have a @ref, so 142 need them. Not sure if all place names present in the catalogue have a listing in the authority list in `<front>`_
- ~~Taxonomy of owned, annotated, presented_by, used~~
    - __Document process for hourly help
        - __Connect in individual entries using @corresp in the `<biblStruct>`__
    
    


```
<classDecl>
            <taxonomy xml:id="status">
               <bibl><title>data status</title></bibl>
               <category n="reviewed" xml:id="checked">
                  <catDesc>Data has been reviewed, with particulary attention paid to accuracy of genre categories.</catDesc>
               </category>
            </taxonomy>
            <taxonomy xml:id="contentTypes">
               <bibl><title>content types/genres</title></bibl>
               <category n="activity" xml:id="activity">
                  <catDesc>activity</catDesc>
                  <category n="puzzle" xml:id="puzzle">
                     <catDesc>puzzle</catDesc>
                  </category>
                  <category n="game" xml:id="game">
                     <catDesc>game</catDesc>
                  </category>
               </category>
               <category n="advertisement" xml:id="advert">
                  <catDesc>advertisement</catDesc>
               </category>
               <category n="article" xml:id="article">
                  <catDesc>article</catDesc>
               </category>
               <category n="ballot" xml:id="ballot">
                  <catDesc>ballot</catDesc>
               </category>
            </taxonomy>
         </classDecl>
```
### 2022-01-21 to 2022-01-27 (Alex)
- Watts-Dunton investigation
    - there are 110 hits which I think are presentation copies of Swinburne to Watts-Dunton
    - there are books that were Swinburne's, uses phrase "Swinburne's copy", 8 books
    - There are several books as well that say they have notes by Swinburne in them, but don't say whether they were a presentation copy to Watts-Dunton or Swinburne's own copy.
- T.J. Wise book is not useful to our investigation. Is about manuscripts and print books written by Swinburne.
### 2022-01-21
#### Agenda
- Watts-Dunton sales
- [Faculty Assistance in Data Science](https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/funding/opportunities/faculty-assistance-in-data-science/index.html)

#### For next week
- review watts-dunton sales catalog for items of interest. (alex)
- review T.J. Wise _A Swinburne Library_ for items of interest. (alex)
- apply for IU data science help (john)
- expand draft abstract for DH Benelux (john and alex)

### 2022-01-14
#### For next week:
- add authorities to `swinburne_library.xml`
- review [EF 2.0 documentation](https://wiki.htrc.illinois.edu/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=79069329)
- Start draft of DH Benelux abstract (John)


Damien Thomas' email: thomdaro@iu.edu
- tasks for him:
    - letters
    - Watts-Dunton
    - adding corresp/ref to library doc